Weak top-down control of decomposition has been found in other studies -- for example, decreased density of red-backed salamanders does not increase decomposition rates in a terrestrial food web, [**HOCKING**].



(might be interesting to actually make this plot: number of animals in bromeliad ~ amount of detritus produced). Invertebrate density is not always correlated with the amount of detritus that is broken down. That is what Ngai and Srivastava found in Costa Rica, but not what we found in our work. And perhaps there is some other study that shows a similar pattern? Of invertebrate density weakly predicting the amount of decomposition?

The mechanism : higher insect density means more insect are eating, which means more overall decomposition, and therefore higher rates of bromeliad nutrition. But that doesn't always happen.
There are several different mechanisms for why this relationship could decouple:
invertebrate density might be negatively correlated with per-capita feeding rate, depending on the relationship between invertebrates and feeding rates. Thus as density decreases there is an increase in how much each invertebrate eats, which means that overall rates of decomposition are constant.

Alterntively, invertebrate consumption might not be the cause of decomposition in this system. If leaves are very tough, it may be that invertebrates do not consume them directly, but rather consume the bacteria that is on these leaves. Thus decreases in invertebrate density have weak effects on decomposition rates, which are largely driven by rates of bacterial decomposition. In this scenario, the presence of invertebrates might still facilitate decomposition indirectly -- by releasing more easily digestable organic compounds (exuviae, feces), insects might increase bacterial density, which in turn accelerates rates of microbial decomposition of more recalticrate substrates. 

There may have also been an effect of time in our experiment. While we tried to generate plausible natural conditions, it may be that leaves require longer periods of time to develop the natural microbial community that is necessry for insects to eat them. 


We did not see predator effects on ecosystem function, even though we found them on prey density. This is unlike Jackie's study, which showed that adding predators increased ecsystem function. 